
JUNGLE (0:36)
No comment


TEMPLE RUINS (11:13)
Improved 31 seconds on my old time.

At the start, I perform a flying corner bug. This saves a couple of seconds.

Lag avoidance in outdoors areas by look manipulation. This will be done
heavily throughout the run.

Because I used an extra flare in Jungle, I can't Perpetual Flare Cancel
(PFC) or Flare Cancel at all until I pick up more flares, despite the
fact it would save more time to PFC in this level than to use the flare
in the previous level. This is a speed/entertainment tradeoff.

Minor improvements occur such as rolling off ledges, taking corners a
bit tighter, grab cancels and such. These should be throughout the run.
A crack bug occurs at the moving block puzzle. This saves about 5
seconds. It would save a lot more but the setup is not very gracious.
Much more optimized movement in water, including manipulating position
for picking up items/throwing switches to avoid the game's "auto-move",
which is slow.

The Shiva at the 2 keyholes is a bitch. I have to swerve so that he will
attack the ground, delaying his approach on Lara as she enters one key.
Otherwise, he would kill me.

In the water/mud room, 2 decent improvements occur. First, we can jump
to the invisible platform (even without a stumble!) without the need for
the slope, though it is incredibly difficult. We colloquially call this
the "Area 51 jump" as MMAN pointed it out to me while I was TASing Area
51. The jump brings Lara to the peak of her jump height at the right
moment. It is so unreliable. The second improvement is we do a
reverse-shelf bug onto the switch platform, then dive into the water.
It's about 2 seconds faster.

Better manipulation of Shivas meaning I don't have to heal

The 2 shivas battle was impossible. I stop shooting occasionally (you
can see/hear when) so that the Shiva does not shield himself. First I
get Shiva #1 to 1 health then attack Shiva #2. They land on the same
position and we can pick up both Scimitars. Very difficult without tools.


THE RIVER GANGES (1:23)
New route by apel, which is shown here.
http://tombrunner.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=67&p=3264#p3264

I dive into the water straight away at the beginning, rather than
running along the edge. It is much faster, due to the tide.
 
In the water up to the corner bug, manipulation of swimming is hard
because of the tides. It looks like I take some corners wide but this is
only because if I went any closer, Lara would either slow down or be
forced to surface, which slows her a lot.

Slope bug - very tricky. We edge along the edge of the slope by holding
roll and landing right on the edge by very precise presses of left and
right. apel's attempt at this place was an odd corner bug which seems
slower than what I've done.

Crawl corner bug at 0:51 - yet to be decided if it is fastest or not.
There may be other corners with more satisfying results. I tried flying, running, shelf and roll corner bug variants here, each of which had no desirable result. chreden pointed out a sliding corner bug may be
faster. I'll be testing this but it won't change the time of 1:24.

Ignore the above! Changed to a flying corner bug, which saves a second.

Curve jump is VERY DIFFICULT! It's very precise and you must jump
seemingly at the very last frame possible. Segment here if RTS.

After the curve jump, I'm not sure of the fastest way down to the
waterfall area, but I think what I did was satisfactory. Although, maybe
we can avoid using a flare cancel (which does still slow us).

Stairs bug at the end - standard stuff.
